---
layout: post
title: Prevent spontaneous cache creation
date: '2017-02-09T01:00:00.000-08:00'
author: Henri Tremblay
tags:
- What I learned today
---

I played a lot with JCache connectors lately. To plug [Ehcache 3](http://www.ehcache.org/) to different things. 

I noticed one really dangerous thing. Frameworks tend to spontaneously create caches that were not explicitly defined. I 
think it is coming from the JCache spirit that there should be a default cache configuration. It is nonetheless a bad idea. 

Let's look at two examples

# Spring

Caching in Spring is implemented by `spring-cache`. To plug JCache to `spring-cache` you use the `JCacheCacheManager`. By default 
when a cache isn't available in the `CacheManager`, Spring calls `JCacheCacheManager.getMissingCache`. So far so good.

The problem is that the default implementation for this method return `null`. It basically means: "Please don't cache 
anything even if I've explicitly set an annotation saying I want to cache this thing."

This is dangerous because you end up having no cache at all without really noticing.

So I recommend overloading `getMissingCache` to throw an explicit exception when the cache isn't found.

```java
@Override
protected org.springframework.cache.Cache getMissingCache(String name) {
    org.springframework.cache.Cache cache = super.getMissingCache(name);
    // All caches should be configured. Throw an exception when one is not found
    if(cache == null) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Unknown cache: " + name);
    }
    return cache;
}
```
The alternative would be to create a correctly configured cache in `getMissingCache`. That also work. I'm not doing that 
right now because I prefer to centralize my cache creations in `CacheConfiguration`.

# Hibernate

To use JCache with Hibernate we need to use the `JCacheRegionFactory`. The problem with `JCacheRegionFactory` is that by 
default if a cache is not found, it will spontaneously create a cache by passing `new MutableConfiguration()`. This means 
that instead of using a properly configured cache, you end up with some random default configuration (infinite on heap for 
Ehcache).

This is really bad because it is pretty hard to detect.

What I recommend in this case is, again, to override the default. Sadly, there is no straightforward cache creation method to 
override. The best we have is `newDefaultConfig` which provides the default configuration.

```java
@Override
protected Configuration<Object, Object> newDefaultConfig(Properties properties, CacheDataDescription metadata) {
    throw new IllegalArgumentException("Unknown hibernate cache: " + metadata);
}
```
One sad thing is that you don't have the actual cache name here. You will need to debug to know it. I filed an
[improvement](https://hibernate.atlassian.net/browse/HHH-11471) (and the related [pull request](https://github.com/hibernate/hibernate-orm/pull/1783)) 
to fix that. It was merged today so should be available soon.

Again, an alternative solution would be to provide a meaningful cache configuration in this method.

# Conclusion

I do understand that frameworks do not like to fail with exceptions. This helps the feeling that they are working out of 
the box.

But I still think silently not caching or providing random default configuration is dangerous. Using my two workarounds should 
prevent you a lot of headaches.
