---
layout: post
title: Mac UI
date: '2017-06-02T01:00:00.000-05:00'
author: Henri Tremblay
tags:
- Stories
---

I've [mentioned already]({% post_url 2014-09-14-having-mac %}) why I am now using a mac after years of beloved Windows.

But I'm still complaining about the really bad UI behavior of macOS (I'm on Sierra). And the ca_fr keyboard that should have had the exact
same layout that Windows had for years instead of trying to be wiser... But that's hardware so there's nothing I can do about it.

During my [last round of complains](https://twitter.com/henri_tremblay/status/869992607689998337) I was ask to write an article about it. So
here it is.

First, one of the first thing I've fixed is the random behavior of _Home_ and _End_ keys. By default, depending on the app you are in, the behave
differently. This is plainly insane. Here is the fix:

```sh
cd ~/Library
mkdir KeyBindings
cd KeyBindings
vi DefaultKeyBinding.dict
```

Put these lines in that file, including the curly braces:

```noformat
{
/* Remap Home / End keys to be correct */
"\UF729" = "moveToBeginningOfLine:"; /* Home */
"\UF72B" = "moveToEndOfLine:"; /* End */
"$\UF729" = "moveToBeginningOfLineAndModifySelection:"; /* Shift + Home */
"$\UF72B" = "moveToEndOfLineAndModifySelection:"; /* Shift + End */
"^\UF729" = "moveToBeginningOfDocument:"; /* Ctrl + Home */
"^\UF72B" = "moveToEndOfDocument:"; /* Ctrl + End */
"$^\UF729" = "moveToBeginningOfDocumentAndModifySelection:"; /* Shift + Ctrl + Home */
"$^\UF72B" = "moveToEndOfDocumentAndModifySelection:"; /* Shift + Ctrl + End */
}
```

Then, macOS is lacking Windows docking. So I've installed [BetterTouchTool](https://www.boastr.net/) for that.

Back to complaining. Here are the things I wasn't able to fix so far.

* `Cmd+Tab` should bring to front the requested window. Always. It doesn't matter is the window is minimized, in background or whatever. Just bring it in front
* `Cmd+Tab` should bring the last used window of an application to the front. Not my 6 Chrome windows. Only the latest one
* `Cmd+ù` should behave as ``Cmd+` ``  when using a ca-fr keyboard. I can probably use the remap trick for that. I tried BTT, it doesn't work
* When switching desktop, it shouldn't matter where my mouse is. Especially to access the dashboard. It should just switch all screens. It there a shortcut to switch screen 1?
* `Cmd+X` should cut everywhere. `Cmd+C` and then `Cmd+Alt+V` is just not the way my brain works. I think about copy or cut when seeing the file. Not when pasting it. Am I the only one?
* I use 2 keyboard layouts (US-en and CA-fr). Because of the dumb keyboard. macOS should remember which application is using which keyboard. However, I don't need it for each Chrome tab

That's it for the day. Can you help me?
